# True Random Number Generator

## Introduction
The vast majority of random number generators used by computer programs are pseudo-random. This means that the numbers are generated by a mathematical algorithm that uses an initial value known as a seed. If the initial seed can be obtained, the entire sequence of pseudo-random number generation can be predicted. This project aims to create a viable true random number generator that uses a combination of random sources with real physical entropy. 

## Motivation
Random number generation is crucial to computer security. Random numbers are used to generate cryptographic keys and keystreams for secure encryption and communication. Other practical applications include consensus algorithms in blockchain mining and drawing winners in a lottery. The integrity of many cryptographic systems depends completely on the unpredictability of its random number generator (RNG). Weaknesses in RNGs can allow malicious users to guess the generated values, potentially compromising the confidentiality and integrity of sensitive data. Therefore, developing a robust and secure RNG is crucial to fortifying cryptographic protocols against various forms of attacks. We aim to address the critical need for improved RNGs in computer security by researching and developing an innovative solution that enhances randomness quality, resilience against attacks, and overall security of cryptographic systems.

## Methodology & Implementation

We opted to use the lightweight GPT-2 large language model to generate random text outputs with good efficiency and minimal computational overhead. By correctly setting up and fine-tuning the model’s parameters, we were able to generate extremely random sentences by having the model complete a statement beginning with “This is a." Then, by using the SHA-256 hashing function, we hash the generated text to produce a hexadecimal value that is then converted to a decimal integer. In parallel to that, we use Random.org’s weather API to generate a truly random number from atmospheric noise data. Finally we merge both generated values through a XOR operation and perform a modulo operation on the result to generate a final random number based on the user’s desired range. The combination of pseudo-randomness, true-randomness, and other cryptographic operations result in a high quality, effective random number. 

Our program uses Django on the back-end, enabling us to write the entire back-end logic in Python. We used the machine learning libraries PyTorch and Transformers to integrate the GPT-2 large language model into our back-end. On the front-end side, we developed a simple but effective user interface with Node.js and React. 

## How to Run

Run the Django backend first.  
`cd myproject`  
`python manage.py runserver`  

Then, open another terminal and run the frontend.   
`cd myproject/security-frontend-master`  
`npm start`
